---
title: JIRA Pipeline Steps
last_updated: Feb 12, 2016
tags: [getting_started]
summary: "Jenkins JIRA Pipeline Steps"
sidebar: jira_sidebar
permalink: index.html
---

## Overview

This Jenkins CI approach allows you to chain several stages together via scripts rather than manually creating multiple jobs and chaining them together. I love how it simplifies the orchestration of the pipeline stages (build, test, and deployment) with automation.

But if you are looking to add a stage to integrate JIRA to CI, this plugin is what you need to make your integration process reliable and faster.

For instance, 
  * If you want to create a new jira related to a particular build, It can be done by adding this new issue step to your pipeline script.

      ```groovy 

      node {
        stage('JIRA') {
          def issue = [fields: [ project: [key: 'TESTPRO'],
                                 summary: 'New JIRA Created from Jenkins.',
                                 description: 'New JIRA Created from Jenkins.',
                                 issuetype: [name: 'Task']]]
            
          // creates new issue
          def newIssue = jiraNewIssue issue: issue, site: 'LOCAL'
      ```

  * If there is a particular build which should be monitored on a specific issue, we can do it by adding a comment on the jira with the error messages using this add comment step.

      ```groovy

      try {
          // added an error manually for testing purposes
          error "Exception" 
      }

      catch(error) {
        // adds a comment on the issue when there's error
        jiraAddComment idOrKey: issueKey, comment: "ERROR RELEASING JIRA", site: 'LOCAL'

        // makes the build job fail
        currentBuild.result = 'FAILURE'
      }

  * If a particular jira issue should be closed after a successful build, that can be done by adding this transition step to your pipeline script.
      
      ```groovy

        def transitionInput = [ transition: [ id: '21'] ]
          
        // jira is transitioned to closed state if there's no error
        jiraTransitionIssue idOrKey: issueKey, input: transitionInput, site: 'LOCAL'
          
      ```

Some of the common usage scenarios with multiple steps were available [here](https://jenkinsci.github.io/jira-steps-plugin/common_usages.html)

## Jira-steps

Jira-steps-plugin extends [pipeline DSL](https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/) by implementing steps for JIRA. It's created to enhance the usage of pipeline steps introduced in jenkins 2.0. It dosen't support any other 1.0 features.

This plugin generates pipeline script for various JIRA steps. Instead of writing non readable lines of shell script, this plugin provides a simple block of code in groovy that can talk to JIRA API. This block of code can be added to the pipeline script in your pipeline job configuration which makes your DevOps automation Process management fast and reliable.

1. JIRA steps will be available in **jenkins > your-pipeline-job > pipeline syntax > snippet generator** after [installing](https://jenkinsci.github.io/jira-steps-plugin/install.html) this plugin.
2. Required JIRA step can be selected from the sample step drop down.
3. Pipeline script for the selected JIRA step can be generated by providing the required input fields.
4. The generated pipeline script can be used
    * in configuring your pipeline job or
    * added as a step in your project's [jenkins file](https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile/).

Get started by [installing](install) this plugin and also refer to the [Release Notes](release_notes) for more information.

**NOTE:** The documentation will be up to date with latest version (or master). If you are on old version please refer to the code.

{% include links.html %}
